Write a query to find all items (select all columns) where the price is higher than the average price of all items.

Use a subquery in the WHERE clause to calculate the average price, then compare each item's price against this average.

Select * 
From shop 
Where price >
    (Select AVG(price)
    From shop )


Available tables and columns:

shop: price, quantity, category, list_date
Find categories where their total quantity is greater than the average of all quantities in the shop.

Important: You must use a subquery inside the HAVING clause to calculate the average. Do not use a hardcoded value or a separate query — the subquery should compute AVG(quantity) from the shop table directly inside HAVING.

Steps to solve:

First, write a subquery that calculates the average of all quantities in the shop: SELECT AVG(quantity) FROM shop
Then, for each category, sum their quantities and compare with this subquery using the HAVING keyword

select category, SUM(quantity) AS total_quantity
From shop
Group by category
HAVING SUM(quantity) >
    (select AVG(quantity) 
    from shop)

Your task is to calculate the total revenue for each category of items in a shop between January 1, 2015, and March 18, 2015. Due to a systematic error in the data entry system, all price values in the database are lower than they should be by a fixed amount.

To correct these prices:

First, calculate the average price across all items within the specified date range (2015-01-01 (January 1, 2015), to 2015-03-18 March 18, 2015)
Add this average price to each item's original price to get the correct price value
For each category, calculate the total revenue by multiplying the corrected price by the quantity and summing these values
Present the results as (category, total_revenue) pairs, sorted by total revenue in descending order

SELECT category, SUM(price * quantity) AS total_revenue
FROM (
    SELECT price + (SELECT AVG(price) FROM shop WHERE list_date BETWEEN '2015-01-01' AND '2015-03-18') AS price, quantity, category, list_date
    FROM shop
    WHERE list_date BETWEEN '2015-01-01' AND '2015-03-18'
)
GROUP BY category
ORDER BY total_revenue DESC

Available tables and columns:

scooters: model, brand, has_lights, price
As the manager of a scooter shop, you have noticed that many scooters are not original, meaning they are missing a model name. Furthermore, bad scooters typically do not have lights.

Your task involves two steps:

First, Add to all scooter prices in the shop the overall average price.
Then, Calculate the average price for each brand, considering only good and original scooters (i.e., scooters with a model name and lights).
The result should include the brand and the average price - avg_price. Sort the results by the average price in ascending order.

SELECT 
    brand,
    AVG(price + (SELECT AVG(price) FROM scooters)) AS avg_price
FROM scooters
WHERE model IS NOT NULL 
  AND has_lights = TRUE
GROUP BY brand
ORDER BY avg_price ASC;

You are the owner of a coffee shop. There are many customers that are waiting for their orders. You may use only one type of coffee beans every day.

There are several criteria for selecting which beans to use. First, we need to filter the beans based on these conditions:

All beans must have a diameter greater than the average diameter of all beans in the table
For light beans: keep only those where the ratio of density to diameter is greater than 0.01
For dark beans: keep all of them
For semi-dark beans: exclude all of them (they are considered unsuitable)
For each brand that meets these criteria, calculate their average density. Only keep brands where the average density is less than 0.8.

Return the brand name and their average density (name the column avg_density) rounded to 3 decimal places. Sort the results by average density in ascending order.


SELECT 
    brand,
    ROUND(AVG(density), 3) AS avg_density
FROM (
    SELECT 
        brand,
        density,
        diameter_wide,
        shade
    FROM beans
    WHERE diameter_wide > (SELECT AVG(diameter_wide) FROM beans)
      AND (
          (shade = 'light' AND (density / diameter_wide) > 0.01)
          OR (shade = 'dark')
          -- semi-dark is excluded automatically
      )
) AS filtered_beans
GROUP BY brand
HAVING AVG(density) < 0.8
ORDER BY avg_density ASC
